R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
Levels of Security Issues in Cloud
Computing
R. Charanya1, M.Aramudhan2, K. Mohan3, S. Nithya4
1,3,4 VIT University,Vellore -632014, India
1charanya.r@vit.ac.in
2PKIET, Karaikal, India
Abstract—Nowadays, Cloud computing is booming in most of the IT industry. Most of the organizations
are moving to cloud computing due to various reasons. It provide elastic architecture accessible through
internet and also it eliminate the setting up of high cost computing infrastructure for the IT based
solutions and services. Cloud computing is pay-per-use model, on-demand network access to a shared
pool of configurable computing resources like Application-as a service, Platform as a services and
infrastructure as a services. In this paper, survey of security issues at different levels such as application
level, host level and network level is presented.
Keywords:- Saas, Paas, Iaas, Application level, Network level, Host level
I. INTRODUCTION
T Cloud computing is defined as provision of resources, application and information as a service over the
cloud on demand. It supports the high storage capabilities and computational power. Today small and medium
size companies are moving to Cloud due to various reason like reduced hardware, maintenance cost, pay-for-
use, scalability, accessible location independent, on-demand security controls, fast deployment, flexibility and
the highly automated process i.e. he customer need not worry about software up-gradation[22].
Cloud computing consist of three layers like Infrastructure as a service (Iaas) is a lowest layer, it
provides the basic infrastructure support services, Platform as a service (Paas) is the middle layer providing
environment for hosting user applications and Software as a service (Saas) is the topmost layer it provide the
complete application is offered as a service on demand [6]. The user need not install and run the application in
local computer, so it reduce the software maintenance burden.
I.1 Cloud Delivery Models
The Cloud computing services can be delivered to customer in many different ways. The cloud
computing delivery models offering a various types of services like, Software as a service (SaaS), Platform as a
service (PaaS) and infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
Infrastructure as a service:
It refers to sharing of hardware resources for executing services using virtualization technology. The
resources will be scaled up based on demand. The charges will be based on pay-per use. The following
resources are offered like hardware, data storage, networking and bandwidth.
Platform as a service:
It provides a higher-level software infrastructure where customers can build and deploy particular
application and services using the tools and programming languages supported by the provider. Platform
services are aimed at specific domains, such as the development of web applications, and are dependent on the
programming language. Customers get a separated environment to test and develop or to permanently deploy
their applications.It allows you to deploy applications without having to spend the money to buy the server [13].
Application as a service:
The customer can manage or control the underlying infrastructure and application platform. It refers
complete application is hosted on internet, it eliminate the need to install in local computer and user can use
them. Customers rent software hosted by the vendor. Popular software services are the Google Apps. It include
web based email, calendar, contacts and chat appliances, Google Docs package allows access and sharing of
documents, spreadsheets and presentations.
1.2 Cloud service deployment model is divided into four ways:-
1. Public cloud
Cloud infrastructure is hosted, operated and managed by a third party [20]. The infrastructure is
available to all enterprise of all users. The service is offered to multiple customers over a common
infrastructure. The services will be provided over the internet by the third party provider who shares the
resources and pay what they used.
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1912
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
Service Models Services Example Service Providers Advantage
Saas (Consume)
Software is offered as
Service and delivered
through a browser
Excel, WebPage, CRM,
ERP
Access, SQL Server
GoogleApps
Salesforce.com
Reduce the cost
Centralized control
Paas
(build on it)
Enables developers to
write applications
without installing any
tools in local system
but run on the cloud.
Scripting
Coding
Coding and integration
AppEngine
Azure
Engine Yard
Force.com
Scalability,
Reliability and security
Pay-per-use
Iaas (Migrate to it) Computing
infrastructure is rented
to the user
Infrastructure
Scalability &
Availability
Amazon EC2,S3
GoGrid
Linode
Rackspace
Scalability
Pay as you go
Best-of-breed
technology and
resources
Fig 1. Delivery models
TABLE I Knowledge of delivery models
2. Private cloud
Cloud infrastructure is made available to specific customer and managed by organization or third party
service provider [20]. Its good option to deal with data protection and service-level issues. Its owned by a single
customer who controls which applications run, and where.
3. Hybrid cloud
Its a combination of public and private cloud models.
4. Community cloud
Community cloud shares infrastructure between several organizations from a specific community with
common concerns (security, compliance, jurisdiction, etc.), whether its managed by them or third part service
provider [2].
1.3 Five essential characteristic of cloud computing:-
On-demand self-service
Individuals can set themselves up without human interaction with a service provider.
Broad network access
Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote
use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (mobile phones, Laptops and PDA).
Location independence Resource pooling
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1913
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
The provider's computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model,
with different physical and virtual resources dynamically signed and reassigned according to consumer demand.
Cloud computing is virtualized environment. The users can get the services at any place with any API. The
demanded resources are from Cloud, is virtualized.
Rapid elasticity
It means users can rapidly increase and decrease
their computing resources as needed, as well as release.
Measured service
Users can pay for only the resources they actually use. Resource usage can be monitored, controlled and
reported.
1.4. Advantage of cloud computing
Virtualization
Flexibility to choose vendor
Elasticity
Cost Reduction
II. OBSTACLES IN CLOUD COMPUTING
Many organizations are not yet confident to moving into the cloud .There are many security issues in
cloud computing. The most important security issues must be avoided in order to make fully from this new
computing paradigm. Some various security concerns are given and discussed here,
2.1. Data-Breach through Fibre Optic Networks
The major data-breach is data leaving a data-center to another data-center is a major security concern.
The data transfer over a network of fibre-optic cables were considered to be a safe mode of data transfer, Telco
Verizon's optical network is an illegal eavesdropping device is placed at a mutual fund company was discovered
by US security forces[12].
2.2. Privacy and Security
The cloud service provider insists that data stored in server is protected from any of invasion and theft.
Some company says that the data resides on the server is inherently more secure than residing in the personal
computer [19].The security in cloud depends on the behaviour of these objects. It shares the multi-tenant
environment, as the number of users increasing, security risk are also getting increased [18]. Its necessary to
identify the proper security attacks protection mechanisms in client-side and also in server-side.
2.3. Portability and interoperability
Organizations are used to change the cloud providers, if they find another cloud platform better than
the one they are using. Also some organizations use different cloud platforms to interact with each other to
completing particular tasks [21]. The users have no idea where their information is stored [9]. User data stored
in a shared environment, along with other user's data[3,5]. The inter-security handlings become important.
2.4. Data Storage over IP Networks
Now-a-days online data storage is very popular and majority of enterprise are stored the data in
network. The main advantage is enterprise can store huge chunk of data without setting up required architecture.
Disadvantage of having online storage, there are security threats that could cause data leakage or data
unavailability in peak hours [17].
III. SECURITY PRINCIPLES
The fundamental basis for developing secure cloud environment is based on various security principles:
Confidentiality: The prevention of unauthorized disclosure of information that may be intentionally or
unintentionally refers to the confidentiality.
Integrity: The concept of cloud information integrity is based on two principles Prevention of modification of
data from unauthorized users and preventing the unauthorized modification of data by authorised user.
Availability: This Principle ensures the availability of cloud data and computing resources when needed.
Authentication: It refers to the process of testing the user's identity and ensures that users are who they claim
to be.
Authorization: It refers to the privileges that are granted to individual or process for enabling them to access
any authorized data and computing resources.
Accountability: This is related to the concept of non-repudiation where the person cannot deny from the
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1914
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
performance of an action. It determines the action and behaviour of single individual within cloud system.
IV. SECURITY CHALLENGES IN CLOUD COMPUTING
Before know about security management in cloud, it's necessary to analyse the various possible vulnerabilities
and attacks in cloud environment. Top security threats in cloud computing is classified as network level, host
level and application level.
4.1. Network level security issues
In public cloud architecture the data moves to or from the organization, ensure confidentiality and
integrity. The network level security risk is classified as three types such as ensuring the data confidentiality,
availability and integrity. The data and recourses previously confined to a private network are now exposed to
the internet, share public network belonging to a third-party cloud provider. The user is not using HTTPS (but
using HTTP) so it increase the risk. The types of network level security issues are
4.1.1. Eavesdropping
The unauthorized user access the data due to interception of network traffic, it result in failure of
confidentiality. The Eavesdropper secretly listen the private conversation of others. This attack may done over
email, instant messaging, etc,
4.1.2. Replay attack
Its a network attack in which a valid data transmission is maliciously or fraudulently repeated or
delayed. The attacker intercepts and save the old messages and later it send to one of participants to gain access
to unauthorized resources.
4.1.3. In Sybil attack
The malicious user pretends to be distinct users after acquiring multiple identities and tries to create
relationship with honest user if malicious user is successful to compromise one of the honest user then attack
gain unauthorized privileges that helps in attacking process.
4.1 4. Reused IP address
If user moves out of the network then same IP address is reassigned and reused by other customer, so it
will create security risk to new user. A customer can't assume that network access to its resources is terminated
upon release of its IP address. The old IP address is assigned to new user still the chance of accessing the data by
some other user. The address still exists in the DNS cache, it violating the privacy of the original user. IP
addresses are finite quantity and billable assert. There is a similar lag time between when physical (i.e., MAC)
addresses are changed in ARP tables and when old ARP addresses are cleared from cache, an old address
persists in ARP caches until they are cleared [1].
4.1.5. DNS Attacks
It translate the domain name to an IP address, Since domain name is easier to remember rather than IP
address. The user using IP address in not feasible because has been routed to some other cloud instead of the one
he asked. The sender and a receiver get rerouted through some evil connection. DNS security measures are
taken, still the route selected between the sender and receiver cause security problems [7].
4.1.6. BGP Prefix Hijacking
It's a type of network attack in which wrong announcement on IP address associated with a
autonomous system (AS), so malicious parties get access to the untraceable IP address.AS communicate using
Border gateway protocol model. Faulty AS broadcast wrongly about the IP associated with it. In this case the
actual traffic get routed to some other IP than the intended one [24]
4.1.7. Sniffer Attack
Data is flowing in network, and chance to read the vital information, it can be traced and captured.
Sniffer program get recorded through the NIC (network Interface Card) that the data/traffic linked to other
systems. Its easily detect a sniffing system running on a network is using ARP (Address resolution Protocol) and
RTT (round Trip time) [16]
4.1.8. Port Scanning
If the customer configures the security group to allow traffic from any source to a specific port, then
that specific port will be vulnerable to a port scan. When Port scanning is detected it should be stopped and
blocked.
4.1.9. Dos Attack
Dos attack is an attack it force the system component to limit, or even halt, normal services. The
network is unavailable by flooding it , disrupting it, jamming it, or crashing it. The problem in Denial of service
on the internet is impossible to prevent. DoS attacks can be prevented with a firewall but they have configured
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1915
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
properly.
4.1.1.10. Distributed Denial of Service Attack
Distributed Denial of Service attack is a DoS attack that occurs from more than one source, and from
more than one location at the same time. DDoS attacks that comes from many "dummy" computers at the same
time to flood the server. This is harder to trace or so that they can use more bandwidth.
4.2. Host Level Security issues:-
Cloud service provider do not publicly share information related to their host platforms, host operating
systems, and processes that are in place to secure the hosts, since hackers can trying to intrude into the cloud
service. The host level security issues are
4.2.1. Security concerns with the hypervisor
Hypervisor is defined as controller called as Virtual machine manager (VMM) that allows multiple OS
runs on single machine at a time. If number of Operating system running on hardware platform, security issues
get increased, because single hardware unit is difficult to monitor multiple operating systems. eg.:- guest system
tries to run malicious code on the host system and get control of the system and block other guest OS, even it
can make changes to any guest OS. Advanced cloud protection system can be developed, in order to monitor the
guest VMs and inter communication among the various infrastructure components [10]
Virtualization platform is software. Major virtualization platform vendors are VMware, Xen and
microsoft. Its important to secure the layer of software that sits between hardware and virtual servers. The
isolation of customer VMs from each other in a multitenant environment, it is very important to protect the
hypervisors from unauthorized users[21]. To protect the hypervisor the Iaas customer should understand the
technology and security process controls instituted by the CSP.
4.2.2. Virtual server Security
Customers of Iaas have full access to the virtualized guest VMs that are hosted and isolated from each
other by hypervisor technology. Virtual server may be accessible on the internet, so sufficient network access
preventive steps should be taken to restrict access to virtual instances. The IaaS platform creates a risk due to
self provisioning of new virtual server, that leads to create insecure virtual servers. Securing the virtual server in
the cloud requires strong operational security procedures.
Some recommendations are
• Protect the integrity of the image from unauthorized users.
• Secure the private keys in the public cloud.
• Keep the decryption keys away from the cloud
• Do not allow password-based authentication for shell access.
• Require role-based access password
• Run a host firewall and open only the minimum ports necessary to support the services on an instance.
• Run only the required services and turn off the unused services
• Enable system auditing and event logging,
• Secure the log events to a dedicated log server.
• Keep the log server separate with higher security protection, including accessing controls.
4.3. Application level security threats:-
Some company hosts an applications in internet that many user use without considering about
Where, how, by whom the services are provided, so proper security mechanism should adapt. The types of
Application level security threats are
4.3.1. SQL Injection attack
Attackers inserted a malicious code into a standard SQL code and it allow unauthorized person to
download the entire database or interact it in other illicit ways. The unauthorized user can access the sensitive
data. This will be avoided the usage of dynamically generated SQL in the code.
4.3.2. Cross-site scripting [XSS]
It embedding script tags in URLs and when user clicks on them, the JavaScript get executed on
machine. In dynamic websites, some pop ups windows get opened and request the user to click on that link,
once user clicked the link the hacker get control and access all our private information [8].
4.3.3. EDoS
An attack against the billing model that underlies the cost of providing a service with the goal of
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1916
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
bankrupting the service itself. DoS attacks on pay-as-you-go cloud applications will result dramatic increase in
your cloud utility bill, increased use of network bandwidth, CPU, and storage consumption. This type of attack
is also being characterized as economic denial of sustainability (EDoS).
4.3.4. Cookie Poisoning
Cookies used to store User IDs. The two types of cookies are: persistent and non-persistent. Persistent
cookie is stored on the client hard-drive, hacker who can access the client machine and easily access the cookies
[15]. Non-Persistent cookie is stored in memory and more difficult to access. Another attack is unauthorized
person can change or modify the content of cookies to access the application or web page. Cookies contain user
identity credential information, one unauthorized person access these details then they can able to forge as an
authorized user. This will be overcome by regular cookie cleanup.
4.3.5. Backdoor and debug options
Normally developers will enable the debugging option while publishing the web site. So hacker can
easily enter into the web-site and make some changes [16]. To prevent this attack developer should disable the
debugging option.
4.3.6. Hidden field manipulation
While user accessing the web page some fields are hidden and its used by developer. The hidden fields
in HTML forms convey important information such as price, user ID etc. The attacker can save the catalogue
page and change the value of hidden field and posted on web page. This will be severe security violation [14].
4.3.7. Google Hacking
Google search engine is the best option for the hacker to access the sensitive information. Even the
hacker hack the user's account. Generally they try to find out the security loopholes on Google they wish to hack
and then after having gathered the necessary information of the concerned system. A group of hackers in china
hacks the login details of various g-mail users. The security threats can be launched at the application level and
cause system downtime disabling the application access even to the authorized users.
4.3.8. Man in the middle attack
This attack is also a category of eavesdropping. The attacker set up the connection between two user
and tries to hear the conversation or it provide false information between them. Tools like Dsniff, Cain, Ettercap,
Wsniff, Airjack etc have developed to protect from this attack [25].
4.3.9. Dos Attack
Dos attack the services assigned to the authorized users unable to use by them. The attack, large
number of services request handled by the server exceeds become unavailable to the authorized user. DoS attack
increases bandwidth consumption besides causing congestion, Due to overloading of the server with the requests
[14]. Making certain parts of the clouds inaccessible to the users.Intrusion detection system (IDS) is the most
popular method of defense against this type of attacks[4].
4.3.10. Distributed Denial of services
DDos is advanced version of DoS in terms of denying the services running on a server is not able to
handle it. Three functional units of DDos attacks: A Master, A Sleve and A Victim. Mater being the attack
launcher is behind all these attacks causing DDoS, Slave is the network which acts like a launch pad for the
Master. It provides the platform to the Master to launch the attack on the Victim. Hence it is also called as
coordinated attack. The DDoS attack is operational in two stages: the first one being Intrusion phase and second
one DDos tools. In intrusion phase the master tries to compromise the less important machines to support in
flooding the more important one. The installing DDos tools and attacking the victim server or machine. DDos
attack the services is unavailable to authorized user Its similar to Dos Attack but the way of launching is
different. DDos attack was experienced with CNN news channel website is unable to access the site for a period
of three hours [13].
Other Security Threats:
Failures in Providers Security
Security is necessary when designing cloud because cloud service provider controls the hardware and
hypervisor on which data is stored and application also runs on the cloud infrastructure.
Attacks by other Customer
The cloud service provider resources shared with untrusted parties. The one customer can access the
other customer sensitive information. This is highly possible in cloud. To overcome this problem strong
cryptography, application-layer operation should be applied.
Availability and reliability issues
Cloud service is accessible through internet, so internet availability and reliability is essential. Service
ISSN : 0975-4024 Vol 5 No 2 Apr-May 2013 1917
R. Charanya et al. / International Journal of Engineering and Technology (IJET)
accessible through internet so complexity increase due to change of failure. The countermeasures are
monitoring the availability carefully.
Legal and Regulatory Issues
The cloud computing have many legal and regulatory issues regarding the data exposed outside the
jurisdiction.
Perimeter security model broken
Many organizations use a perimeter security model with strong security at the perimeter of the
enterprise network. Now all critical data and applications are stored in cloud but its outside the perimeter of
enterprise control.
Integrated Provider and customer Security
The problem is disconnected provider and customer security systems. If there is any misbehaviour in cloud, not
reported to the customer. The cloud service provider should adapt Proper integrity identity management.
V. CONCLUSION
Cloud computing is revolutionized the computing world, in order to keep the cloud secure, the security threats
need to be controlled. Today, security is often listed as the number one concern for clients considering cloud
adoption. This concern is immediately followed by high availability, a concept that needs to be addressed for
almost every production-grade IT environment. So regularly auditing should be performed to safeguard the
cloud from external threats. In this survey, security in cloud computing covers security issues and challenges in
network level, host level and application level are identified and solution to prevent the attacks are compared.
Future work is to resolve the security issues in cloud using suitable framework.

